---
title: Overview
slug: Overview
url: "docs/introduction"
---

### What is Crop Rotation?
Crop rotation is the practice of planting different crops sequentially on the same plot of land to improve soil health, optimize nutrients in the soil and to combat pests and weeds.

In an ideal world we would all have a growing space that could be easily divided into equal and adequately sized areas where we could grow all the vegetables we would like, unfortunately for most people this is not the case.

The guidance and recommendations are given for an *ideal* environment but can be adjusted where required.

### Why use Crop Rotation? 
The first reason is to help the control of pests and disease.

The second reason is the nutrients level of the soil.

If the same crop is grown on the same piece of ground year after year, the likelihood is that the crop will become badly infected with pests and diseases specific to that crop is vastly increased. Moving the crops each year prevents a build-up of soil-borne pests and diseases that may affect each crop grown.

The grouping of plants is key as each group will contain plants that suffer from similar from similar pests and diseases as well as having similar nutrient requirements.
Therefore, to avoid a crop being infected with a pest or disease specific to that type, there should not be a similar crop from the same group coming onto that plot in the following year.

An example of effient three year crop rotation would be:

#### Year one: 
Section one: Potatoes\
Section two: Legumes, onions and roots\
Section three: Brassicas

#### Year two:
Section one: Legumes, onions and roots\
Section two: Brassicas\
Section three: Potatoes

#### Year three:
Section one: Brassicas\
Section two: Potatoes\
Section three: Legumes, onions and roots

Each year the crops are moved to the 'next' section to prevent pests and diseases forming. 

This method can be changed to any amount of years required by increasing or reducing the amount of plots and different crops grown.
